Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo What : Africa CDC weekly engagement with members of the media to share critical updates on the coordinated efforts by African Union Member States to implement the joint continental strategy in response to COVID-19. It also highlights key steps taken to support other initiatives such as PACT, vaccine development and the saving lives, economies and livelihoods campaign as countries transition through different stages of the pandemic  Speakers: Dr John Nkengasong, Director, Africa CDC, and Dr Anne-Marie Antchouey, Direction General, Ministry of Health, Gabon When: Thursday, 27 August 2020  Time: 11.00–12.00 pm East Africa Time  Where: Online through ZOOM  Please register on: http://apo-opa.com/au/ Live stream: https://livestream.com/africanunion/events/9033858   Background Information The novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has spread to about 215 countries and territories with more than 23 million cases; and claimed more than 806,000 lives worldwide. Over 1.1million cases have been reported in all 55 African countries, with nearly 28,000 deaths. Africa CDC is working with Member States to ensure appropriate response to the outbreak in countries to keep up the encouraging number of recoveries and the impressive public health measures adopted by governments across the continent so far. Thursday’s briefing will also feature Dr Anne-Marie Antchouey, Director General of the Ministry of Health of Gabon to outline how the country has manage its response to the COVID19 since it recorded the first case.  Kindly note that there will be French and Portuguese interpretations during the weekly briefing going forward.  Here are basic things to note about tomorrows briefing.  Journalists will be allowed to ask questions directly online. If you have a question send your name and the name of your media house to WhatsApp # (+251 945 502 310), the following emails (GwehN@africa-union.org, molalett@africa-union.org) and they will be taken by the moderator. Colleagues who cannot ask questions directly online should send their questions to the same number or email addresses. Journalists are invited to connect and attend the press briefing on Thursday, 27 August 2020, at 11.00 a.m. East Africa Time. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC). Media Contact: Mr Molalet Tsedeke, Tel: 0911-630631 Email: molalett@africa-union.org Directorate of Information and Communication AU Commission  About the African Union: The African Union (http://www.AU.int/en)spearheads Africa’s development and integration in close collaboration with African Union Member States, the Regional Economic Communities and African citizens. AU Vision: to accelerate progress towards an integrated, prosperous and inclusive Africa, at peace with itself, playing a dynamic role in the continental and global arena, effectively driven by an accountable, efficient and responsive Commission.  Learn more at: http://www.au.int/en  About Africa CDC: Africa CDC (http://www.Africadc.org) is a specialized technical institution of the African Union which supports Member States in their efforts to strengthen health systems and improve surveillance, emergency response, prevention and control of diseases.  Learn more at: http://www.africacdc.org 