Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. After securing approval last summer from the “Bank Al Maghrib”, Orange Morocco announces today the launch of Orange Money in the kingdom. This service will allow Moroccans to make mobile payments and transfer money using their phones. Morocco also becomes the 18th country in the Africa and Middle East region of Orange (www.Orange.com) to offer the Orange Money solution.    Orange Money, a secure and instant service  Orange Money offers every mobile user, regardless of their telecom operator, the option of having a mobile wallet backed by their phone number. The solution allows mobile phone users to carry out financial transactions, pay for phone recharges remotely or withdraw money from their Orange Money wallets at points of sale approved by Orange Money Maroc.  Non-Orange customers can take advantage of the service by downloading the mobile application.  Mobile money for financial and societal inclusion  Mobile money is revolutionising Africa’s economy. A key driver in the continent’s economic growth, Orange Money is a real vehicle for increasing the financial inclusion of populations and the digitalisation of the continent.  For the Group, the ambition is to go further and to offer more services with a seamless customer experience.  Orange Money Group growth engine  As one of the Group's main growth drivers on the continent, the service is constantly evolving for the benefit of populations, companies, institutions and Governments.  Launched in 2008, the Orange Money mobile money solution allows millions of people excluded from the banking system to be able to deposit, withdraw, transfer and make payments easily and simply from their mobile phone, with complete security. 12 years on since its launch, Orange Money continues to record exponential growth. The service is now available in 18 countries. 45 million customers trust this solution and the amount of transactions carried out through Orange Money reached 2.6 billion euros in 2019. Orange's ambition is to make mobile money an essential means of payment and to become a leading player in mobile financial services in Africa and the Middle East including savings, credit and insurance in strict accordance with the banking regulations of the countries where it operates.  To find out more: Orange Money press kit (https://oran.ge/2TXYujQ)  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Orange. Media Contact: Nathalie Chevrier +33 1 44 44 93 93 nathalie.chevrier@orange.com Khadija Komara  + 33 6 76 45 96 18 khadija.komara@orange.com About Orange: Orange (www.Orange.com) is one of the world’s leading telecommunications operators with sales of 42 billion euros in 2019 and 147,000 employees worldwide at 31 December 2019, including 87,000 employees in France. The Group has a total customer base of 266 million customers worldwide at 31 December 2019, including 207 million mobile customers and 21million fixed broadband customers. The Group is present in 26 countries. Orange is also a leading provider of global IT and telecommunication services to multinational companies, under the brand Orange Business Services. In December 2019, the Group presented its new “Engage 2025” strategic plan, which, guided by social and environmental accountability, aims to reinvent its operator model. While accelerating in growth areas and placing data and AI at the heart of its innovation model, the Group will be an attractive and responsible employer, adapted to emerging professions.  Orange is listed on Euronext Paris (symbol ORA) and on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol ORAN).  For more information on the internet and on your mobile: www.Orange.com, www.Orange-Business.com or to follow us on  Twitter: @orangegrouppr.  Orange and any other Orange product or service names included in this material are trademarks of Orange or Orange Brand Services Limited  Media filesDownload logo