By Kudzai MutisiThe government of Zimbabwe issued a statement on 31 August 2020 addressingseveral issues pertaining to the land reform program. The statement presented thegovernment’s position on the compensation of indigenous (black) Zimbabweans wholost their land during the land reform program and the compensation of former farmowners whose land was covered by Bilateral Investment Protection and PromotionAgreements (BIPPAs). ocals and foreigners seem confused by the government’s statement particularly theissue of returning land to certain former farm owners as compensation. Many havemisconstrued this as the reversal of the land reform program by PresidentMnangagwa’s government.The compensation of former farm owners is covered in section 295 of the constitutionof Zimbabwe. There are three categories of farm owners eligible for compensation indifferent forms. Section 295 (1) provides that indigenous Zimbabweans who lost theirland must be compensated for the land and developments thereon. Section 295 (2)stipulates that those whose land was covered by BIPPAs and BITs are entitled tocompensation for the land and developments thereon. Section 295 (3) compels thegovernment to compensate those not covered in subsection 1 and 2 for improvementson the land and nothing else. In line with the constitution of Zimbabwe, President Mnangagwa’s government hasput measures to provide compensation to all three categories of former farm owners.The recent statement provides options for the compensation of farmers undersubsection 1 or 2 of section 295. In fact, these former farm owners were not includedin the Global Compensation Deed signed recently. It is only these two categories offormer farmer owners who have the option to get back their land or to be allocatedalternative land elsewhere. The farmers that fall under section 295 (3) will be compensated only for improvementson their farms in accordance with the Global Compensation Deed recently signed bythe government and former white farmers. These former white farmers owned morethan 98 percent of the land expropriated by the government during the land reformprogram. They have no option of getting back that land.It is worth noting that the number of farms covered by BIPPAs and BITs are fewer than 37. Some of the farmers in this category already received compensation for their landduring the Mugabe era. According to the recent government statement, thecompensation of these farmers will be governed by Statutory Instrument 62 of 2020.President Mnangagwa is not reversing the land reform program, he is simplyimplementing the country’s constitution. By committing to the full compensation offarmers covered by BIPPAs and BITs, the government of Zimbabwe is respecting andrestoring property rights. Moreover, the new black farmers currently occupying theland covered by BIPPAs will not be left landless, they will be resettled elsewhere by thegovernment. This is a positive move that should be applauded by locals and foreignersalike. The government’s statement also emphasised that illegal occupation of productivefarms will not be tolerated anymore. In addition, the government will not downsizeproductive farms. This is a complete departure from the past where the governmentallowed the disruption of production on white owned farms. The criticism being levelled against President Mnangagwa’s government is driven bysheer ignorance of the country’s constitution and political propaganda. If anything, therecent moves by the government seek to correct the mistakes made during the landreform program and to bring sanity to the agricultural sector. There is no reversal ofZimbabwe’s land reform program. In fact, the government is effectively finalising theland reform program. 