Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo The UK announced the Growth Gateway – a service to help African, UK and other international businesses trade with and invest in each other – at the UK-Africa Investment Summit in January 2020.  The service The service will help businesses access the UK government’s trade, investment and finance offer for Africa all in one place. It will be made up of: online information: a section of great.gov.uk will provide up-to-date information on the UK government’s trade, investment and finance offer, as well as African market guides, UK sector guides and a tool to help businesses understand what support they may need, and how best to access it; the content will be available in English, French and Portuguese 	a UK-based team of trade and investment professionals: to help African firms export to the UK, find investment partners, and help UK and international companies to trade with and invest in Africa; the team will work closely with Her Majesty’s Trade Commissioner for Africa, Emma Wade-Smith Eligibility Growth Gateway’s online service will be available for all African, UK and international businesses. Additional support will be accessible to businesses seeking to combine commercial development with social impact in Africa. Growing prosperity through trade and investment The UK government is determined to provide support for African businesses to find trade and investment partners and access UK advice and expertise. For UK businesses, the service offers further assistance to help British businesses to find new business partners and capitalise on opportunities for international growth in African markets. The programme was announced at the UK-Africa Investment Summit, held in London, UK on 20 January 2020. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of United Kingdom Foreign and Commonwealth Office.