By Gary van Staden, Senior Political Analyst at NKC African Economics Malawi is bracing for trouble ahead of the Constitutional Court ruling on the presidential election challenge due to be handed down on Monday, February 3. Political leaders, foreign missions, and the security
establishment have pleaded for calm and for all citizens to accept the ruling. The Court will deliver its ruling at the Lilongwe District
Registry of the High Court on the unprecedented challenge to the outcome of the
presidential poll held last May, which was lodged by the opposition Malawi
Congress Party (MCP) and United Transformation Movement (UTM). In the election, President Peter Mutharika, flagbearer of the
governing Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), was re-elected and defeated
Lazarus Chakwera of the MCP by some 159,000 votes. Mr Chakwera alleged in court
papers that he was the rightful winner and called the result “daylight
robbery”. The applicants asked the Court to declare the election outcome
null and void. Several clashes between opposition supporters, security forces,
and DPP supporters followed the disputed elections. Last August, the
Constitutional Court agreed to hear the case and the hearing was concluded in
December, with the decision due within 45 working days. The five judges hearing
the case were allegedly subjected to offers of bribery, an issue reported to
the Malawi Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Ahead of the highly anticipated outcome, with emotions running high,
foreign heads of mission in Malawi have urged all political leaders and
citizens to respect the court decision. Ambassadors and high commissioners from
the US, UK, Japan, Norway, Germany, Ireland, and the European Union appealed in
a joint statement for calm and respect. On Tuesday, January 28, Malawi Defence Force (MDF) Commander
Vincent Nundwe promised tight security ahead of the decision. The MDF and the
Malawi Police Service have implemented a number of security measures to ensure
stability and calm in the wake of the announcement. Given the highly charged atmosphere ahead of the Court ruling, it
is inevitable that some clashes between rival supporters will occur, whatever
the outcome. We believe, however, that if such clashes do take place, they will
not pose any long-term threat to security or to overall political stability. Mountains of evidence from officials, the electoral commission,
political parties, IT experts, and individuals were heard over several months
from those supporting and opposing the application, and the danger is that both
sides have reason to feel optimistic over the outcome. In addition, the truth often seems not to matter in Malawi’s
political environment, so anticipating the outcome becomes little more than
guesswork. We will wait for Monday and then assess Malawi’s political
direction. 