By Chris Bishop He was one of the big names in business in Africa; as
gentlemanly. as he was shrewd. He fought the odds and apartheid to stake his
place in business and inspire millions of his countrymen to do the same. Richard Maponya – the doyen of black business in South
Africa – passed away in the early hours of January 6, after a short illness.
Maponya turned 99 on Christmas Eve near the end of a long and fruitful life
that saw him dine with the Queen, laugh with Bill Clinton and chauffer his old
friend Nelson Mandela. Mandela asked Maponya, who owned a car dealership, to
pick him up at the airport in Johannesburg after his release from prison in
1990. Ï picked him up at the airport and that was the most
frightening time of my life. We were chased by people on foot, helicopters,
motorbikes and cars. Everyone just wanted to touch Mandela. They could kill him
just trying to touch him,” Maponya recalled to Forbes Africa in a cover story
in March 2017. Mandela was a close friend of Maponya since the 1950s. The
future president, then a young lawyer  
helped Maponya set up his first business against the restrictive
apartheid laws that shackled black business. Maponya wanted to open a clothing store in Soweto,
Johannesburg; the authorities said no. Mandela lost the fight for the clothing
store, but did manage to secure him a license to trade daily necessities. This
opened the way for Maponya to start out with a milk delivery business that was
to prove the foundation of his fortune. More than half a century on, Mandela, then a former president
of South Africa, beamed with pride, in 2007, as he opened the first shopping
mall in Soweto. Maponya Mall had taken the canny businessman a good deal of
patience to put together. He acquired the land in 1979 – the first black man to
secure a 100-year lease for land in Soweto – and spent many more years building
up the mall. “Ï fought for 27 years for that mall and was many times
denied; they actually thought I was dreaming. When Nelson Mandela cut the
ribbon to open the mall, that was the highlight of my life,” Maponya said years
later. It was a mile on a road less travelled by Maponya in a long
journey from the tiny township of Lenyenye in Limpopo in northern South Africa
where he was born. He moved across the province to Polokwane to train as a
teacher and then, like many young men of his generation, moved south to
Johannesburg in search of his fortune. In those days, the gold mining city was booming, but only the
few saw the fruits. Maponya was blocked at every turn as he tried to make his
way in business; he won through making a fortune from property, horse racing,
retail, cars and liquor. Maponya mentored many black entrepreneurs and inspired many
millions more he had never met. One of them was Herman Mashaba, the former
mayor of Johannesburg, who made his own fortune with hair care products. “To myself and the people I grew up with he was an
inspiration to all of us to get into business…If he had started out in business
in a normal world there is no doubt he would have been even bigger than he
was,” Mashaba told CNBC Africa. Maponya will be mourned by the millions who were inspired to
follow him and by a business world that is richer, in more ways than one, for his
nearly a century of hard work in which retirement was never an option. “People who retire are lazy people. You retire and do what?
Bask in the sun?  I am not that type of
man,” he said in 2017 at the age of 96. He could never be.