Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group.
Download logo EVENT:  Please join us on Thursday, January 16, 2020, at 4:00pm for a telephonic press briefing with Sean Cairncross, CEO of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC).  Mr. Cairncross will provide a briefing about MCC’s current portfolio in Africa, as well as previewing his upcoming trip to Kenya and Mozambique from January 20 – 25, 2020.  After brief remarks, he will take questions from participating journalists.  BACKGROUND:  The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is an innovative and independent U.S. foreign assistance agency that is helping lead the fight against global poverty.  DETAILS:  Speaker:                     Sean Cairncross, Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation  Date:                           Thursday, January 16, 2020  Time:                          4:00pm  Venue:                        U.S. Embassy, Addis Ababa  Ground rules:            On the record  Language:                  English  RSVP:                        Yohannes Gezahegn – 091 151 2227  Sean Cairncross, Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation Sean Cairncross was nominated by President Donald J. Trump to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation on January 8, 2018 and was sworn in on June 24, 2019. As CEO, Mr. Cairncross leads the agency and provides strategic direction and vision as MCC fulfills its mission of reducing poverty through economic growth and advancing America’s interests around the globe.  Prior to joining MCC, Mr. Cairncross served as a Deputy Assistant to President Trump and Senior Advisor to the White House Chief of Staff. Before his work at the White House, Mr. Cairncross served as the Chief Operating Officer of the Republican National Committee for the 2016 election cycle. CEO Cairncross’s full bio can be found here. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Embassy Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.