South African Finance Minister Tito Mboweni heads to the World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland, next week ready to tell world leaders that South
Africa does have electricity – despite what they may have read in the papers –
but also ready to admit that the country is lagging in its economic reform. The outspoken finance minister will field questions in the Swiss ski resort
– where 30,000 delegates will gather next week – resort from everyone from
presidents to the heads of multinational companies about everything from reform
the economy of Zimbabwe. The South African mission is bent on networking with
international investors and journalists asked Mboweni at a breakfast in
Rosebank, Johannesburg, Thursday about how difficult will this be for a country
struggling to maintain its electricity supply. “When we are asked why there is no electricity in South Africa our answer is
going to be that this is not true. Yes, we are experiencing load shedding while
Eskom fixes this… You cannot be a doom day sayer and say there is not
electricity in South Africa. It is not true and that is the approach we will
take,” says Mboweni. “We don’t want to go and lie to people if you lie to people you get caught.” The finance minister also said the unbundling of the national power
generator Eskom into generation, transmission, distribution entities was moving
forward and be financed from the state budget and not the printing of money. Yet Mboweni was scathing about failing state owned enterprises in general. “We will tell in Davos of the determined effort to put state owned
enterprises on a good path, those which do work, those that don’t work should
get out of the way.” The finance minister also admitted that the structural reforms of South
Africa, promised with the advent of President Cyril Ramaphosa two years ago,
are behind and he expects questions about this in Davos. “They will ask about the Reserve Bank and I will tell them the Reserve Bank
will stay independent and serve the needs of the people without fear nor
favour. We will also tell them that it is honest to say the pace of structural
reforms is not the way we want it to be so we must speed up,” says Mboweni. Economic development minister Ebrahim Patel said South Africa could report
back to Davos on progress on a number of promises made in Switzerland last
year. He said the business portal – a one stop shop for entrepreneurs – had
made setting up and registering a business in South Africa much quicker.