FORBES AFRICA is on the hunt for Africans under the age of 30, who are building brands, creating jobs and transforming the continent, to join our Under 30 community for 2020. JOHANNESBURG, 07 January 2020: Attention entrepreneurs,
creatives, sport stars and technology geeks — the 2020 FORBES AFRICA Under 30
nominations are now officially open. The
FORBES AFRICA 30 Under 30 list is the most-anticipated list of game-changers on
the continent and this year, we are on the hunt for 30 of Africa’s brightest
achievers under the age of 30 spanning these categories: Business, Technology,
Creatives and Sport. Each year, FORBES AFRICA looks for resilient self-starters, innovators, entrepreneurs and disruptors who have the acumen to stay the course in their chosen field, come what may. Past
honorees include Sho Madjozi, Bruce Diale, Karabo Poppy, Kwesta, Nomzamo
Mbatha, Burna Boy, Nthabiseng Mosia, Busi Mkhumbuzi Pooe, Henrich Akomolafe,
Davido, Yemi Alade, Vere Shaba, Nasty C and WizKid. What’s
different this year is that we have whittled down the list to just 30
finalists, making the competition stiff and the vetting process even more
rigorous. Says
FORBES AFRICA’s Managing Editor, Renuka Methil: “The start of a new decade
means the unraveling of fresh talent on the African continent. I can’t wait to
see the potential billionaires who will land up on our desks. Our coveted sixth
annual Under 30 list will herald some of the decade’s biggest names in business
and life.” If you think you have what it takes to be on this year’s list or know an entrepreneur, creative, technology entrepreneur or sports star under 30 with a proven track-record on the continent – introduce them to FORBES AFRICA by applying or submitting your nomination. NOMINATIONS
CRITERIA: Business
and Technology categories Sports
category Creatives
category Your
entry should include: Nominations
must be sent via email to FORBES AFRICA journalist and curator of the list,
Karen Mwendera, on Karen.Mwendera@abn360.com Nominations
close on 3 February 2020.