By Dr Aradhana Ramnund-Mansingh, an academic at MANCOSA and former Human Resource Executive. The Queen Bee Syndrome whereby women in power consciously impede the development of other women in the workplace, is slowly gaining ground in South Africa. Queen Bees of the human kind are undoing the gains
of gender equality in the workplace. The Queen Bee Syndrome is one in which a woman in a
position of authority views or treats subordinates more critically if they are
female, while favouring males when it comes to promotion. In
nature the Queen Bee is the only queen in her colony; she is fed royal jelly
and is the largest bee in the colony with the most graceful body. Contrary to
nature, the human Queen Bee is anything but graceful – she is rude, arrogant
and patronising. At a time when we should be seeing more women
enabling and empowering each other, there is a progressive rise in the number
of Queen Bees in many corporates. This is concomitant with more women assuming
executive positions than before. The
Queen Bee phenomenon has been documented by several studies. In one study,
scientists from the University of Toronto speculated that the Queen
Bee Syndrome may be the reason that women find it more stressful to work for
female managers; no difference was found in stress levels for male workers. Amidst
challenges women face to enter the workplace; to overcome socially constructed
norms; and to gain parity at work, women continue to experience the lethal
sting of a Queen Bee who succeeded in her career, but refuses to help other
women do the same. Throughout
centuries, women faced the constant subjugation by men in terms of policies,
procedures, laws, harassment, power struggles and gender stereotyping. The
boys’ networks control all the power mandates which prescribe practice and
behaviour. When women report injustices and policy contraventions, the decision-making
panels are often made of men who stand in solidarity to uphold decisions which
discredit the woman in question. The
only individuals who understand the innate struggle and challenges women face,
are women themselves. However, this narrative does not translate into the
positive, happy ending that it should. Within
the South African labour spaces, the dialogue of the Queen Bee has begun but
has not yet gained adequate momentum. Very limited academic research showcasing
South African examples are available. Although
mostly unfamiliar in a South African context, Queen Bee
was a term coined internationally in the 1970s. A Queen Bee may display some
positive feminine leadership values, but she consciously chooses to impede the
development of other women. The Queen Bee recognizes her struggles
towards success as a lonely journey. The widespread belief is that women have
to emulate men in order to maintain success. Women have to portray male
characteristics and personify men by exhibiting brash, harsh and tough
behaviour, to gain some notion of respect from her male counterparts. Queen Bees gain support from the “male
tribe” of the organization if she is seen as part of their group. What female
leaders fail to take cognisance of is the fact that their male colleagues will “allow”
them to climb only up to a certain point and thus the glass ceiling continues
to prevail. When support, development, mentorship
or advice is sought, other women will be met by aggression and a clear
condescending tone of the power lines being drawn. It is important for women to know and
understand the different types of women who impede their advancement and
success, and act strategically with this knowledge in mind. There are different types of women who
will obstruct; those who will agree to be your mentor but exploit you; those
who show you kindness but stand firm with the boys’ network when decisions for
development are put to the fore. It is critical to discern the extent your
fellow sisters will pull you down. The Queen Bee will offer no support to
developing women. The Princess Bee will support other women as long as they do
not violate her territory. Hence, she will mentor others only as long as they
stay separate from her domain. The Phantom Bee will not facilitate finding
another woman for a job vacancy – men are then allocated the job and fewer
women are afforded access to new job. Then there is the Cinderella complex – the ugly
step-sisters work together to undermine the success of one sister There is,
however, a spark of light within the darkness. The women who support, encourage
and mentor other women by far exceed the Queen Bees. These women need to
continue the stellar work that they do. When faced with the double-edged sword in positions of power, women need to be steadfast in their recognition of challenges that the sisterhood face and not surrender their soul to the boys’ network. Do not be hypnotised by power and lose sight
of logic and sisterhood. Remember the journey; remember the struggle when more than
20 000 women, crying “we’ve had enough” marched to the Union Buildings on 9
August 1956 to protest against the apartheid pass laws, regarded one of the
largest demonstrations of the time. Together we can accomplish and overcome. Be a mentor and give courage and support to as many women as possible. If you encounter the Queen Bee and members of her royal court, make the choice not to be dampened by their crude and cold demeanour.