Africa’s most dynamic thought-leaders, industry game-changers
and icons of social activism are set to feature at the exclusive
FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit presented by Mastercard (#LWS2020KZN)
and hosted by the KwaZulu-Natal government – taking place at the Inkosi Albert
Luthuli ICC Complex in Durban on Friday, 6 March 2020. For the 5th edition of this globally-renowned
event, panellists and speakers will engage with the impactful 2020 theme, ‘The
Ceiling Crashers 2.0: Power with Purpose’. The day’s thought-provoking
discussions will be followed by the highly-anticipated FORBES
WOMAN AFRICA Awards Gala Dinner which celebrates the continent’s most
influential female ‘ceiling crashers’ across a number of key categories. “The FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading
Women Summit has grown to become one of the biggest female-empowerment
events, boasting a high calibre of attendees and unparalleled speaker line-up,”
said Renuka Methil, Managing Editor of FORBES WOMAN AFRICA. “This promises to be the biggest instalment yet,
featuring female pioneers and path-breakers across the continent. Audiences will
be exposed to dynamic discussions about the growing the number of women in
leadership – something government and business really need to factor into their
strategies. We will also get to grips with a new discourse that focuses on dismantling
power structures and the need for truly inclusive cultures in business and
society.” This highly-anticipated event, which is hosted annually
in honour of International Women’s Day, is expected to draw an audience of
around 1 000 leading women. Through hard-hitting talks, fireside chats and
insightful panel sessions centred on ‘ceiling crashers’, attendees will be
inspired to make meaningful changes within their own industries, secure in the
knowledge that they have the support of these innovative allies. This year’s
programme promises an influential mix of leaders in healthcare and business;
advocates of social and environmental activism; award-winning artists and
internationally-renowned stateswomen. For the first time, FORBES WOMAN AFRICA will be releasing
its own list of ‘Africa’s Most Powerful Women’, many of whom will be attending
the summit. The list will be published in the March issue of the magazine, outlining
those who have been leading ideas and industries while purposefully
contributing to nation-building and positively impacting the lives around them. The FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Awards Gala Dinner, which is
hosted the evening of the summit, is an opportunity to recognise the
trailblazers and role models who have created a new narrative within their
industries. By challenging authority and ‘old school’ traditions, they are
enabling future generations to live in a better and more equal world. Beatrice Cornacchia, Senior Vice President, Marketing and
Communications, Mastercard Middle East and Africa, said: “African women are a
vital source of innovation, prosperity, and economic growth. Yet inequality and
exclusion still hold women back in many aspects of their everyday lives – from
growing their businesses to having the financial tools to participate in the
formal economy; from joining the C-Suite to following their passions. We are
proud to partner with FORBES WOMAN AFRICA as we believe that it is only by
bringing diverse perspectives to the table that we can unlock Africa’s
possibilities to women.” Managing Director of the ABN Group, Roberta Naicker, said
the organisation was excited that the KwaZulu-Natal government would, once
again, play host to this illustrious event, which serves to highlight the
continent’s most influential female leaders while also shining a spotlight on
this beautiful region. “A summit of this calibre showcases that KZN is being
positioned as a world-class events’ destination. We are excited to have
renowned speakers and attendees will get the opportunity to engage on hard-hitting
issues during the summit, while also affording them the chance to enjoy the
many recreational tourism sites and activities for which KZN is renowned.” Tickets to the exclusive 2020 FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading
Women Summit and Gala Dinner are available at a cost of R3499, available
through Webtickets (https://www.webtickets.co.za/v2/event.aspx?itemid=1496991848).
Tickets are limited and interested parties are urged to book early to avoid
disappointment. There are also select opportunities to get involved with the event
sponsorship, exhibiting at the on-site marketplace or by sponsoring a mentee. Please
visit website for further details. The 2020 FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit is
presented by Mastercard (@MastercardMEA) and hosted by KZN Provincial
Government (@KZNgov). Keep updated on all the latest news and announcements on
Twitter @LWSummit and join the conversation using the hashtags #LWS2020KZN
#DOKZN. Contact details: Office: +27 (11) 384 0300 Sponsorship and exhibition opportunities: Sales_South_Africa@abn360.com Media partnerships and press accreditation: oj@oliviajones.co.za Event-related queries: events@abn360.comWebsite:www.Leadingwomensummit.co.za