By Chris Bishop When the young Fortune Mojapelo (pictured) used to take a taxi from his township to the nearby small town of Que Que in Zimbabwe he used to marvel at the huge, imposing, chrome refineries that loomed large by the roadside – never thinking, for a moment, that one day he would be in mining poised to take over 10% of supply of one of the planet’s most sought after minerals destined to power our future. Mojapelo left Que Que, in the heart of Zimbabwe’s chrome
belt, to go to the University of Cape Town to study actuarial science. He spent
a few years as a management consultant before applying his skills to a
consortium seeking mineral rights in South Africa. They succeeded and Mojapelo,
then in his early 30s, became a founder of Bushveld Minerals, which listed on
AIM in London in 2017. Now the South African company is gearing up to take advantage
of the world rush for battery metals expected to see the world market increase
122 times in the next 20 years. An expansion expected to attract $660 billion
in capital expenditure to unearth more metals like cobalt, lithium and vanadium
that will make the batteries that will power the world’s cars, factories and
mines. This transformation, expected to be led by Chinese manufacturers, will
replace fossil fuels with electricity to diminish the world’s carbon footprint. “My only question is can Africa keep up with this demand,”
says Mojapelo speaking
the CNBC Africa at the Mining Indaba in Cape Town, “I think we can and our
company is expanding to make sure we can.” Bushveld Minerals, with its Vametco Mine employing 600
workers in Brits west of Johannesburg, is investing to treble production to
8400 mt in the next five years. The company, which supplies the steel industry
in the United States and Asia,  currently
supplies 3% of world demand and hopes to expand this to 10%. Mojapelo is also planning to invest in a factory to make the
batteries from the mined vanadium. He agrees that Africa should be extracting
more from its raw minerals. Benedict Sobotka, the head of the Global Battery Alliance
set up by the World Economic Forum, said
at the Mining Indaba that Africa needed to get busy making batteries as
well as mining the raw materials. “If you look at a cell phone battery, it can retail for a
thousand dollars, while the raw materials can cost cents. That is how much
money can be made in the battery business and Africa needs to get into it,
“says Sobotka.