By Shirley Webber, Coverage Head Natural Resources at Absa Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB).Global investor interest in Africa’s mining sector remains strong despite various challenges facing the sector. The African continent has vast resources with sustainable future growth in the exploration and development of commodities, and therefore the growing demand for these strategic resources by foreign investors and commodity users worldwide in the long term. However,
to harness this interest, stable political environments, compliance with
legislation, stable labour relations and regulatory certainty will be key to ensure
the continent remains an attractive destination for mining investment. The
regulatory environment must be certain and consistent from one year to the next
because mining is a long-term business, and from a bank’s view, it is a three
to five-year investment. Therefore, both banks and shareholders need
consistency, be it regulations or aspects like royalty taxes for example. The
regulatory environment across some African countries is improving for the
mining and metals sector as governments realise the importance of providing
certainty to attract new investment. As a result, some investors have been
considering green-fields projects, especially in West and East Africa. There’s
a renewed focus on battery minerals as well and this is evident in the drilling
activity on the African continent over the last two years. Increased capital
expenditure is envisaged in gold, copper, lithium, mineral sands, cobalt and
graphite. There
is a more collaborative approach between governments and investors in order to
attract sustainable investment in the regions. The key to unlocking investments
into Africa is for industry stakeholders to continue to collaborate responsibly
to promote investment in mining and ultimately economic growth in the countries
they operate. Equally
important will be the availability of reliable cost-effective power supply. For
example, there have been power cuts in South Africa, and this has affected
mining companies. Mining companies prefer certainty about the available power
so that they can manage their cost structures and plan production accordingly.
In the rest of Africa similar energy crisis situations are evident, therefor
the need for more renewable energy sources, thereby curbing power interruptions
and costs in the long-run. Because
mining is a capital-intensive business, factors such as rising production
costs, infrastructure challenges, electricity supply as mentioned and rising labour
costs continue to be of major concern to mining companies.  And these are issues which need to be dealt
with responsibly. As
costs rise and margins come under pressure, diversification will be important
for the mining and metals industry to ensure that companies remain competitive
with volatile economic cycles and commodity prices. Diversification
is a key differentiator as it is not only about  various commodities but also geographical
diversification too. Some of the mining companies are expanding into both
Africa and globally. On the other hand, consolidation remains a key theme that
includes large players forming one entity for efficiencies or even selling of
parts of the value chain. The long term sustainability is dependent
on sourcing, developing and mining high grade reserves. Change
in the reserves’ estimates or development prospects pose a risk to mining
companies. It will however be important to achieve efficiencies particularly as
the cost of extraction continues to rise due to the geology of some minerals
which is forcing mining companies to access more difficult reserves underground.
It is important to focus on enhancing operational efficiency to perhaps look at
inclusion of automation and new technologies where applicable. Equally
of concern to mining companies is the volatility in commodity and foreign
currency markets which will need appropriate risk management strategies in
order to ensure financial institutional funding of investments in mining. Innovative hedging solutions to clients who have
exposures to interest rate fluctuation, foreign exchange fluctuation and
commodity variability are necessities for operational project success. Banks
such as Absa, which is one of the 130 banks from 49 countries who are
signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Banking, now have
an increasing and important role to play by funding not only commercially
viable projects but also ensuring that they complied with sustainability
principles which align business strategy to society’s goals. The
key role of a bank like Absa now includes making sure that where we provide
funding, the economy and communities benefit. Going forward when considering
funding of certain commercially viable projects which include natural resources
and extraction, lenders will place additional focus on the positive impact of
funding and whether it aligns with a country’s developmental goals, the
environment and its people. Non-compliance
with environmental laws can lead to production interruptions, reputational
damage, and substantial fines/clean-up costs. Mining operations are subject to
various stringent and complex environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations. In this respect, capital providers can guide their clients and
stakeholders in their requirements for funding by applying the Equator
Principles which include applicable IFC Performance Standards on Environmental
and Social Sustainability Guidelines for various sectors and for funding
natural resources and extraction transactions.