The future of the world hinges on the future of Africa. A bold statement? The UAE doesn’t think so and has backed the sentiment with a USD 500 million investment to empower the continent’s youth. Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy, UAE Minister for International Cooperation and Director General, Expo 2020 Dubai Bureau, explains why investing in human capital is key to Africa’s development – and how it will drive progress in the rest of the world. Written by: HE Reem Al Hashimy Africa is the future – not just for Africans, but for the entire world. The youngest, fastest-growing continent on the planet is brimming with promise, and the global community has a shared responsibility to ensure it grasps that opportunity for the good of us all. Why?
Africa’s population of more than 1.3 billion will double by the middle of this
century, potentially rising to four billion people by 2100 – or around one
third of the global population. The
UAE, which has a near-50-year partnership with Africa – a friendship based on
mutual respect and vision that continues to flourish to this day – shares the
view of many African and development experts that the future of Africa cannot
be built on traditional aid, focused largely on physical infrastructure and
basic needs. We recognise that the real value lies in the long-term building of
human capital, which is why we are investing in Africa’s greatest resource: its
people, particularly its youth. Huge
strides have been made in the last 15 years. Now – at the start of the third
decade of the Millennium – we need to step it up and help underpin Africa’s
potential through its people, because how Africa develops, how it ensures its
stability, builds on its successes and overcomes its challenges, will have
enormous implications, not just for the continent itself, but for every country
on the planet. The recent
launch of the UAE Consortium for Africa takes our partnership to the next
level, with the UAE committing to invest USD 500 million (AED 1.83 billion) –
in a consolidation of government and private resources– into a continent whose
future development will inevitably bolster positive progress throughout the
rest of the world. As many countries face ageing and dwindling populations, the opposite is
true in Africa. The continent is home to 226 million people aged between 15 and
24 – that’s 20 per cent of the population; in 15 countries in sub-Saharan
Africa, half the population is under age 18; and by 2035, Africa’s working
population will exceed that of the rest of the world combined. That growing
potential talent pool combined with a formidable market represents a powerful
‘population dividend’. The Consortium is geared towards a vision of a new, ‘turbocharged’ and
connected Africa, driven by an enabled
and optimistic youth. More than any structures of concrete or steel,
the foundations of this future will be built on a new generation of creative, collaborative
and critical thinkers. Young
people are the backbone of this great continent. And unlocking their potential,
through up-skilling, re-skilling and building a solid digital infrastructure –
is a crucial development priority. That is why the first priorities of the Consortium will focus
on digitisation and youth: to ensure that every single
person is connected; that young people have the skills to embrace, rather
than be overwhelmed by, the opportunities that will naturally follow, and are able
to look forward with
optimism to a future that is firmly in their control. We know that technology can transform lives and growing that technology
will bridge the gap between tradition and progress, with wide-ranging benefits
for communities, economies and beyond. This is already underway. Almost half the people of Africa subscribe to
mobile services, and in 2019, the number of tech hubs across Africa grew by
nearly 50 per cent, with Africa the fastest growing continent for developers
globally. But internet speeds lag and mobile data costs around eight per cent
of average income – more than anywhere else globally. Innovation and re-skilling youth for the industries of tomorrow, including those jobs that have yet to be
invented, while also catalysing a spirit of
entrepreneurism – this is key to harnessing the potential of a youthful
population and driving sustainable growth and development. This aim of the Consortium will receive a huge boost by the next World Expo in Dubai. For six months from 20 October this year, Expo
2020 Dubai will give Africa a global stage like it has never enjoyed before,
and a platform to showcase policy with the potential to change the future – not
just of Africa, but of the world. The African Union will, for the first time, host
a pavilion at Expo 2020. Millions of visitors will step in to a colourful, arena
devoid of national borders, where they will discover Africa’s vast potential
and optimism for the future, reflected in its Agenda 2063 aspirations that
address agriculture, transport, science and technology, and health. Expo 2020 will offer African nations the ideal
platform to show their individual visions for the future, with each country
having its own pavilion for the first time in the near 170-year history of
World Expos. The potential for new forms of partnerships,
across the continent and across the globe, is tremendous, with many of the 192
participating nations eager to widen and deepen their ties with Africa. Human potential is at the heart of creating an
Africa we all want to see. The continent’s future is being built from within,
by mobilising a young, entrepreneurial generation that knows what it is to be
empowered, thereby embracing and enacting sustainable positive change with
implications on a local, pan-continental and international level. Both the UAE Consortium for Africa and Africa’s
Expo 2020 participation at The World’s Greatest Showcase of human brilliance
and achievement can only help bring that exciting, optimistic new future a big
step closer.