By Derek Cikes, Commercial Director at Payflex South Africans are desperate for innovative payment solutions that don’t involve credit traps. In response to a soaring debt crisis due to the miseducation of credit and lending terms and conditions – both on credit cards and store cards – philanthropic South Africans in their hundreds have been paying off other people’s store lay-bye debt, according to businessinsider. It begs the question though, what is available for online
shoppers and is there a way to avoid credit in all its disguises entirely? The
answer is yes and they’re called ‘Buy-Now Pay-Later’  solutions (BNPL)
that offer interest-free, zero-fee shopping with no catches, are going to war
with SA’s debt problem on behalf of online consumers. “There is a way that shoppers can avoid debt all together,
shop responsibly and get ownership of their goods immediately,” explains Payflex CEO, Paul Behrmann. Payflex is leading the charge in disrupting the way
shoppers buy online. The company, based in Illovo Johannesburg, already has
thousands of South African customers and over 100 stores signed up for Payflex. The problem with store Lay-byes is that you never really own
the goods until you’ve paid in full. Online solutions such as Payflex, allow
you to own the goods immediately while they pay the merchant directly and take
on all the risk. “This is a solution where everyone wins. The merchant can
boost their sales by 20 to 30% through larger baskets and improved conversion
while the buyer gets to own their goods right away while shopping responsibly
and avoiding any debt whatsoever,” explains Behrmann. In other countries, millions of people are already using
BNPL solutions like these such as Klarna, Afterpay (global giant in this industry) and Zip Payments.
Behrmann believes it’s not a question of if but when South Africans will
turn their backs on destructive interest rates and choose more responsible
solutions instead. Payflex is available on leading online stores across South Africa including South Africa’s largest fashion online retailer, Superbalist.com Content provided by Talking Point Communications