By Zandre Campos, CEO of ABO Capital It was less than 10 years ago that the
world’s most valuable resource was oil. 
States would do all they could to ensure some sort of control over a
portion of the oil economy. Some even went to war for it, and those that
controlled the oil industry controlled the world. However, as our society becomes more
technologically driven, a new resource has taken oil’s place as the world’s
most important commodity, and it does not exist in the physical plane. I am
talking, of course, about data. Data is reshaping the way we think and
approach our world. It impacts every business and industry, from marketing to
agriculture to health care. We see it in action every day in our lives. Did
Amazon just recommend a product to you? They did that through your browsing and
shopping data. Did you recently watch an ad on YouTube? Well, YouTube chose
that ad based on its data analysis of your interests. As data becomes more significant to our
economy and a general state of life, it is essential for Africa to take the
lead in this new data economy. Data is the key to unlocking the future
potential of Africa. Luckily, Africa already has two of the most important
pieces of any data set. The first is its population. Africa has a fast-growing population that skews young. Africa is a very young country, with 60% of its population under the age of 25. That number is expected to go up by 42% by the year 2030. Currently, Africa constitutes about 20% of the world’s youth population, coming in at around 230 million people. Perhaps more importantly, Africa’s middle-class population is also growing in both numbers and wealth. Consumer expenditures are expected to rise to $2.1 trillion in 2025 and $2.4 trillion in 2030. That is more than double the 2015 rates. Current household consumption is growing at a faster rate than average annual GDP, and Axios estimates that by 2020 more than half of all Africans will have discretionary income. A rising, young middle class means more
data and information will be available, creating a wellspring of untapped
potential just waiting to be harvested. At the same time, these young minds can
bring new ideas and inspirations to the African economy, spearheading an
economic growth never seen before. As more Africans have the income to spend,
an increase in the use of personal electronic devices is expected as well. More
will be using computers, smartphones, and other technological devices, all of
which will contribute to the data that can be gathered. The second piece of the puzzle is energy. Data management is expensive, requiring massive data centres that rely on significant portions of energy to sustain themselves. And they will need all the help they can get. The African data centre market is expected to grow more than 13% between 2018 and 2014, meaning the continent will need a massive increase in energy to match up with their data growth. Luckily, Africa is on the right path towards a cheaper and greener energy solution. According to the
International Energy Agency (IEA), Africa is poised to lead the world in
solar energy over the next 20 years. Solar energy is cheaper and more reliable
than other forms of energy. Combined with the sunny conditions and growing
energy need that comes with a massive population growth, the stage is set for
an African energy boom that will give people across the continent electricity
for the first time. But it is not just private individuals that
will benefit from this energy boost. Data companies will also be able to take
advantage of this energy surplus. This will lead to new innovations and
projects on local, national and international scales. From improving taxi
services in South African cities to monitoring African climate change, data
will pave the way for a smarter economy. Some in Africa are already taking the
necessary steps to ensure their spot at the top. Africa Data Centres, a
pan-African company that provides data services, has already installed solar plants
in Nairobi, Cape Town and Johannesburg. Data alone will not solve the issue. Africa
needs to invest in data science too, in order to work with the data they
compile. While Africa may be behind other nations in terms of data-analysis,
those who adopt these practices will be able to catch on to the lessons learned
from others soon enough. Africa is in need of more leadership development, key
to which is the decision-making that lies in information analysis. Of course, challenges await anyone that
embraces the data economy. The balance between privacy and convenience must be
maintained to secure public support, and international bodies must be set up to
regulate the distribution and use of data in a globalized economy. However,
with a young and eager population, I have no doubt that Africa will be able to
rise to the challenge and fully embrace the new data economy.