PRESS RELEASE New strategies to advance inclusion and grow female
leadership to be discussed at 2020 FORBES
WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit. A unique collection of the continent’s most influential
women and contrarians from a cross-section of industries will be creating a new
discourse about dismantling power structures and how business and society must
urgently incorporate truly inclusive cultures, at the 2020 FORBES WOMAN AFRICA
Leading Women Summit. The 5th edition of this dynamic event will be
taking place at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli ICC Complex in Durban on Friday, 6
March, focusing on the theme, ‘The Ceiling Crashers 2.0: Power with Purpose’.
The summit will be followed by the FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Awards Gala Dinner. “The FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Leading Women Summit has grown in
stature and success over the years, and our milestone fifth instalment promises
to be the biggest yet with the pioneers and path-breakers who are some of
Africa’s most powerful women. There will be some dynamic discussions about
growing the number of women in leadership that government and business need to
mandatorily factor into their strategies,” says Renuka Methil, Managing Editor
of FORBES WOMAN AFRICA. [COMMENT from Forbes Woman Africa KwaZulu-Natal
spokesperson] The event, which is hosted annually in honour of
International Women’s Day, is anticipated to draw an audience of around 1,000
leading women. Through hard-hitting talks, fireside chats and insightful panel
sessions centred on ‘ceiling crashers’, attendees will be inspired to make
meaningful changes within their own industries, secure in the knowledge that
they have the support of these innovative allies. The FORBES WOMAN AFRICA Awards Gala Dinner, which is
hosted the evening of the summit, is an opportunity to recognise those who are
trailblazers and role models who have created a new narrative within their
industries. By challenging authority and ‘old school’ traditions, they are
enabling future generations to live in a better and more equal world. How to get involved: You can become a part of the change through a number of
avenues, either by booking a ticket to attend the event (https://www.webtickets.co.za/v2/event.aspx?itemid=1496991848);
coming on board as an event sponsor or sponsoring a mentee; or by exhibiting at
the market place. Contact details: Office: +27 (11) 384 0300 Sponsorship and exhibition opportunities: Sales_South_Africa@abn360.com Media partnerships and press accreditation:
oj@oliviajones.co.za Events Manager: alice.maile@abn360.com Event-related queries: events@abn360.com