Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Download logo HYCM (https://www.HYCM.com/), an established global forex broker, will provide an in-depth look at the markets for the upcoming year in an advanced forex seminar on How to Become a Pro Trader: All You Need to Know for 2020. The seminar will be held on February 21st at Dukes The Palm, a Royal Hideaway Hotel in Dubai.  Giles Coghlan, Chief Currency Analyst at HYCM and the host of the seminar commented:  “During the seminar, we will be looking at some of the key themes expected for 2020. The year has started off looking set to provide good buying opportunities in commodity and in emerging markets, as the US and China look to de-escalate their trade war, which went on throughout 2019. However, this outlook has been hit by a series of unexpected events: the US-Iran crisis in early January, Donald Trump’s possible impeachment, and the outbreak of the coronavirus, which really picked up strength towards the end of January. We will also look at the possible impact of Brexit negotiations on the GBP, the oil and gold markets, as well as on how to read the Central Bank minutes.”  The seminar participants will learn how to read key market events, recognise when a market mood is changing, and react to different market conditions. They will be shown how to use professional trading tools to identify which trades to take. They will also learn the fundamental drivers of the FX market, as well as see the impact of the bond, equity and commodity markets on major currencies.  Advanced traders wishing to attend should fill out the registration form at http://bit.ly/forex-seminar-in-dubai until February 20th.  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of HYCM. Media Contact: press@hycm.com About HYCM: HYCM (https://www.HYCM.com/) is the global brand name of Henyep Capital Markets (UK) Limited, HYCM (Europe) Ltd, Henyep Capital Markets (DIFC) Ltd and HYCM Ltd, all individual entities under Henyep Capital Markets Group, a global corporation founded in 1977, operating in Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. High Risk Investment Warning: Contracts for Difference (‘CFDs’) are complex financial products that are traded on margin. Trading CFDs carries a high degree of risk. It is possible to lose all your capital. These products may not be suitable for everyone and you should ensure that you understand the risks involved. Seek independent expert advice if necessary and speculate only with funds that you can afford to lose. Please think carefully about whether such trading suits you, taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances as well as your personal resources. We do not recommend clients posting their entire account balance to meet margin requirements. Clients can minimise their level of exposure by requesting a change in leverage limit. For more information please refer to HYCM’s Risk Disclosure.