With seven days of live performances, expert speakers, special cultural highlights and an unprecedented list of exhibitors this year, you will want to delve into everything IATF2020 has to offer. The biggest trade fair event in Africa, IATF brings together more professionals under one roof than any other event of its kind on the continent. This year, the theme is “Building Bridges for a Successful AfCFTA” focusing on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), a market for goods and services across 55 countries, and paving the way for Africa to better achieve its economic and social goals. Taking
place in Kigali, Rwanda, on 1 to 7 September, over one billion people will
showcase and exhibit their goods and services, while exploring business and
investment opportunities in Africa. With stakeholders
that include investors, SMEs, and the informal sector, IATF2020 has become the
ideal platform to address the challenges affecting intra-African trade and
provide practical and effective solutions to overcome these challenges. The
inaugural IATF2018, which took place in Cairo, Egypt, was an enormous success,
garnering US$32 billion in trade and investment deals with more than 1 000
exhibitors and 2 500 conference delegates from over 45 countries. This
year, IATF2020 will surpass the success of previous years by providing a
platform for businesses to access an integrated market of over 1.2 billion
people with a GDP of over US$2.5 trillion created under the African Continental
Free Trade Area. IATF2020
does not only serve as a marketplace where buyers and sellers of goods meet,
but also as a business matchmaker, enabling exchanges from business to business
and business to government and political stakeholders. Additionally,
the IATF2020 Conference will feature leading African and international speakers
who will discuss a variety of topics surrounding African trade and investment
opportunities. There will also be training workshops covering exporting,
standards and marketing. This
year, visitors and exhibitors will also get to enjoy work from the greatest
creative minds on the continent during the Creative Africa Exchange. The
initiative showcases Africa’s creative economy through music, film, fashion,
and a creative Africa summit. IATF2020
will host art and craft exhibitions with magnificent pieces that have never
been displayed together before. Visitors will be able to engage with the
artists and craftspeople, and find out how art is leading the way in the
cultural industries. Traders
who are unable to make it to Rwanda for IATF2020 can still log onto the
IATF2020 Virtual Trade Fair and
showcase goods, services and investment opportunities on the interactive online
platform. The Virtual Trade Fair connects exhibitors and visitors from all
sectors, and provides a platform for delegates and non-attendees to connect in
real-time during the event and for the rest of the year after the Trade Fair
has concluded. With
exhibitors from all over Africa and beyond, businesses across the public and
private sectors, and SMEs to multinational corporations, IATF2020 simply cannot
be matched anywhere else. Make
valuable business connections and accelerate your reach into African markets at
IATF2020. To
register and get more information, visit the IATF website at intrafricantradefair.com/en