When French President Emmanuel Macron made his first trip outside Europe since the COVID-19 lockdown,he chose to visit Mauritania for the G5 Sahel summit. The Sahel region of Africa is faced with persistentterrorism and security threats with international implications. But listening carefully to Macron’s first speechin Nouakchott, it was clear the he was also using the visit to promote a sovereign debt relief initiative set upin April at the IMF and World Bank Spring Meetings. The G20 had agreed at that time to suspend incomingdebt service from low income countries for eight months to allow them to redirect funds to cover the healthand economic costs of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mauritania will benefit from this initiative.As seen at this weekend’s G20 follow-up meeting, France continues to play a pivotal role in supporting thedebt service standstill for the world’s poorest countries, mainly in Africa. By doing so, it is making a frankpush for multilateralism against a backdrop of geopolitical tensions between superpowers, the increasinglyentrenched isolationism of the United States, the fallout of Brexit, and a rising criticism of China’s handlingof the coronavirus outbreak. The message is clear: the world is facing debt distress because of COVID-19and the world should work collectively to find solutions. At the nexus of the debt relief efforts is the FrenchTreasury, which hosts the Paris Club, an ad hoc negotiating forum of 22 creditor governments. The Paris Clubsecretariat is coordinating the implementation of the debt service suspension with G20 participants.Without doubt, many African debtors will be facing intense debt distress in 2020. Already in late 2019, thetail end of the debt financing cycle had been reached. Borrowing countries had taken advantage of highcommodity prices, a low-inflation environment, and excess savings in developed markets seeking high-yieldinvestments. The arrival of COVID-19 in early 2020 has drained national budgets and hindered new financing,revealing debt servicing vulnerabilities. In such a context, the G20 initiative is not a panacea. The suspensionof debt payments will allow countries with growing primary deficits to pay for COVID-19 prevention andtreatment. It will help boost economic activity. But the real impact of the G20 initiative is paving the way forreinforced multilateralism in a world of growing political disengagement.At the root of the G20 initiative is a comprehensive review of the sovereign debts of countries, includingdebts to China. Very little information has existed concerning the terms of Chinese bilateral and commerciallending and China is not a member of the OECD Creditor Reporting System. By making debt transparency keyto the success of the G20 initiative, a multilateral framework has been created to delve further into thecomposition and risks of sovereign debts. The initiative also serves to reset the stage for a fairer sharing ofthe costs of debt relief across all creditor groups. This is particularly important when considering the criticalrole of China in sovereign financing today and the difficulty gauging any debt relief they may provide. As anillustration, how will hesitating private creditors, another crucial source of hard currency, be convinced toparticipate in sovereign debt restructurings if they fear their efforts could subsidize China’s debt recoveries?By promoting G20 debt relief at the recent G5 Sahel summit in Mauritania, France reconfirmed its multilateralconvictions. Countries can come together to address security threats and terrorism as well as find better andlonger-lasting solutions for sovereign debt sustainability. By reinforcing the role of the Paris Club, France isbreathing new life into multilateralism at a critical time.