Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Africa Oil Week (http://www.Africa-OilWeek.com/) has launched of first in a series of complimentary reports, produced in association with Wood Mackenzie. The report “Opportunities for Africa in the Energy Transition”, will be accompanied by a free-to-attend webinar taking place this Wednesday (29 July, 15:00 GMT+1).  Posing the question “What does the energy transition mean for Africa?”, the report explores the continent’s role in meeting global hydrocarbon demand and examines how Africa’s position as a hydrocarbon exporter will be challenged under various accelerated energy transition scenarios. It also looks at how net zero goals, electrification, and new technology deployments are accelerating the energy transition globally, whilst providing an overview of how these factors are at play within Africa. Moderated by Wood Mackenzie’s Valentina Kretzschmar, the accompanying webinar will include frank discussions around both the challenges and opportunities for Africa in the energy transition. The expert contributors, listed below, will be on-hand to provide cutting-edge analysis and answer questions from the audience:  David Brown, Head of Markets & Transitions – Americas, Wood Mackenzie Ville Rimali, Director – Growth & Development, Wärtsilä Jonathan Evans, VP Africa New Ventures, BP Exploration Ade Adeola, Managing Director, Energy & Natural Resources, Standard Chartered Bank The report is available here (https://bit.ly/330FbNc) as a complimentary download. Sign-up for the webinar here (https://bit.ly/2ByUWiW). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Oil Week. Media Contact: On behalf of Africa Oil Week Kasia Gill Email: kasia.gill@hyve.group About Africa Oil Week: Africa Oil Week (http://www.Africa-OilWeek.com/) is the meeting place of choice for the continent’s upstream oil and gas sector. Now entering its 27th year, the event brings together governments, national and international oil companies, independents, investors, the G&G community and service providers. Media filesDownload logo