Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. The 82nd Attorney General of the United States, Eric H. Holder, Jr., will provide opening remarks for the largest-ever gathering of senior African business leaders. The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. served President Barack Obama from 2009-2015, and is currently a partner at Covington & Burling, LLP.  The panel, “Law and Crisis Management: Working with Lawyers in Business, Government, and Society to Manage the Challenges of COVID-19” will also feature: Moderator: David B. Wilkins, Lester Kissel Professor of Law, Vice Dean for Global Initiatives on the Legal Profession, and Faculty Director, Center on the Legal Profession, Harvard Law School Gerald Abila, Founder and Executive Director, BarefootLaw Myma Belo-Osagie, Co-Founder, Udo Udoma Belo-Osagie Michel Brizoua-Bi, Partner, Bilé-Aka, Brizoua-Bi & Associés Stephen Chege, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Safaricom Prof. Vincent O. Nmehielle, SJD, Secretary-General, African Development Bank Group Office of the Secretary-General and General Secretariat Ruth L. Okediji, Jeremiah Smith Jr Professor of Law, Harvard Law School and Co-Director, Berkman Klein Center Sandie Okoro, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, World Bank Group Thandi Orleyn, Chairperson, Legal Resources Trust Dr. Godfred Penn, Director and General Counsel, African Development Bank Africa.com’s webinar series, Crisis Management for African Business Leaders, addresses the unprecedented challenges African executives are facing during the COVID-19 pandemic. Nearly 20,000 senior business leaders participate from 123 countries – 46 countries on the African continent + 77 countries throughout the world. “Law and Crisis Management: Working with Lawyers in Business, Government, and Society to Manage the Challenges of COVID-19” will take place on Wednesday, June 3. 10:00 EDT New York | 14:00 GMT Ghana | 15:00 WAT Nigeria /UK | 16:00 CAT South Africa | 17:00 EAT Kenya If you have not yet registered, or for more information, please visit virtualconferenceafrica.com. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa.com. Media Contact: Laura Joseph Phone: +27 82 332 0473 Email:  laura.joseph@africa.com About Africa.com : Africa.com is a media holding company with an extensive array of platforms that reach a global audience interested in African content and community. Africa.com’s interests include a business publisher’s ad network, content syndication, the website at ww.iAfrica.com, email newsletters, various social media platforms, and internet domain names ending with the “www.Africa.com” extension. Africa.com operates from Johannesburg, Lagos, and New York, and has a presence in Cape Town and Nairobi. Media filesDownload logo