By Wole SoyinkaTo the affected governors all over the nation, there is oneimmediate step to take: demand the withdrawal of thosesoldiers. Convoke Town Hall meetings as a matter ofurgency. 24-hr Curfews are not the solution. Take over thesecurity of your people with whatever resources you canrummage. Substitute community self-policing based onLocal Councils, to curb hooligan infiltration andextortionist and destructive opportunism. I arrived home from external commitments just over a weekago to an extraordinary homecoming gift. It took the form of amovement — sometimes angry, sometimes entrancing,poignant, sometimes strident, certainly robust in expectationsbut always moving, visionary and organized. That movementdemanded an end to brutality from state security agencies,focusing on a notorious unit known as SARS. But, of course,SARS merely stood for the parasitic character of governanceitself in all ramifications. That dimension – albeit not in thosevery terms of course – was acknowledge by the first formalresponse of government, delivered through the Vice-President.The movement involved members of the Nigerian BarAssociation, Feminist Groups, Professionals, Technocrats,Students, Prelates, Industrial institutions, and Artistes – writers,cineastes, actors, musicians. It was markedly a youthfulmovement, its energy, creativity and resolve diffusedthroughout the nation through impressive strategies. It was,above all, orderly. In places, one felt vibrations that seemed toecho concert grounds like Woodstock, other times, the massedprocessions of France’s Yellow vests or waves of Lech Walesa’sSolidarity movement. Even closer, more recently and pertinent,the patient, stoical gatherings in Mali that lasted weeks and, inwhose resolution, our own nation played a critical role.As I stated in my Message to Youth at the Freedom Park 10thanniversary events on Saturday, 17th, these youths broughtfresh blood into tired veins. It was bliss indeed to be alive, towatch youths finally begin to take the future into their ownhands. But – and haven’t we been here before? — suddenly, virtuallyovernight, it all changed. State security services – which specificbranch, we have yet to identify – transported thugs to break upthe protests. The videos exist, they have been widelydisseminated – sleek motorcades with number plates covered –moved to recruit and disgorge thugs and breeds of hoodlums tobreak up the peaceful protests. Those mercenaries set fire to theprotesters’ vehicles where parked, set upon the gathered youthswith cudgels and machetes. They broke open at least one prisonto let out the inmates. It has since been established that some ofthose vandals were actually recruited prisoners who, we canonly presume, have been paid not only in cash but in kind.Casualties began in single, sporadic numbers, climaxing in theshooting dead last night of a yet undetermined number ofprotesters in a Lagos sector called Lekki. The mood, and climate of protest changed abruptly, anddevastatingly with that diabolical intrusion. For the first time,anger and nihilism entered the lists, moving to dominateemotions. Organized militancy has been replaced by vengeful,omni-directional hatred. The capital, Abuja, has been torched inplaces, including the famous Apo market – that name itselfevoking memories of an ancient massacre of youth – known asthe APO Six — by SARS.Yesterday, October 20, I set out to drive to my hometown,Abeokuta, to be on my own turf as the violence was spiralingmindlessly in multiple directions. After negotiating my waythrough some eight or nine protesters’ road-blocks, I wascompelled to turn back. It was all déjà vu – the uprisings in theformer Western Region of Nigeria, the anti-Abacha movementetc. etc. etc. The attempt however enabled me to assess the mood and transformation of the movement. I was betterprepared. I rescheduled my trip for the following day ,– that is,this morning.In the meantime, however, that is, within the next eight to tenhours, the tension has become unimaginable! At that earliermention Lagos sector, Lekki, where most of the affirmativeaction gatherings had taken place, soldiers opened fire onunarmed demonstrators, killing and wounding a yetundetermined number. One such extra-judicial killing hasdrenched the Nigerian flag in the blood of innocents – and notsymbolically. The video has, in accustomed parlance, ‘goneviral’. I have spoken by phone to eye-witnesses. One, a notedpublic figure has shared his first-hand testimony on television.The government should cease to insult this nation with petulantdenials. I resumed my trip to Abeokuta at 6 am, this morning asscheduled, again negotiating road-blocks -– this timesomewhere between twelve and fifteen, all distinguished by animplacable state of rage. It was in stark contrast to theinclusivity of the protesting ‘family of common cause’ of earlierdays. All inherent beauty of instant bonding and solidarityevaporated. At the block just before the Lagos Secretariat, theprotesters proved the most recalcitrant. In the end, theyexacted from me just the one offering to the rites of passage – Icould sense it coming — I had to come down from the car andaddressed them. I did. Little did they know what was churningin my mind: This is not real. This is Back to Abacha – in grotesquereplay! It is absolutely essential to let this government know that theArmy has now replaced SARS in the demonic album of theprotesters. My enquiry so far indicates that the Lagos governordid not invite in the Army, did not complain of a ‘breakdown inlaw and order’. Nevertheless, the Centre has chosen to act in anauthoritarian manner and has inflicted a near incurable wound 6on the community psyche. Need I add that, on arrival inAbeokuta, my home town, I again had to negotiate a roadblock? That went smoothly enough. I expected it, and have nodoubt that more are being erected as this is being written.It is pathetic and unimaginative to claim, as some have done,that the continued protest is hurting the nation’s economy etc.etc. COVID-19 has battered the Nigerian economy – such as it is for over eight months. Of course it is not easy to bring down COVID under a hail of bullets – human lives are easier target, and there are even trophies to flaunt as evidence of victory –such as the blood-soaked Nigerian flag that one of the victimswas waving at the time of his murder.To the affected governors all over the nation, there is oneimmediate step to take: demand the withdrawal of thosesoldiers. Convoke Town Hall meetings as a matter of urgency.24-hr Curfews are not the solution. Take over the security ofyour people with whatever resources you can rummage.Substitute community self-policing based on Local Councils, tocurb hooligan infiltration and extortionist and destructiveopportunism. We commiserate with the bereaved and urgestate governments to compensate material losses, wherever. Tocommence any process of healing at all – dare one assume thatthis is the ultimate destination of desire? — the Army mustapologize, not merely to the nation but to the global community– the facts are indisputable – you, the military, opened fire onunarmed civilians. There has to be structured restitution andassurance that such aberrations will not again be recorded.Then both governance and its security arms can commence ameaningful, lamentably overdue dialogue with society. Do notattempt to dictate — Dialogue!