Content provided by APO Group. CNBC Africa provides content from APO Group as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes. CNBC Africa is not responsible for the content provided by APO Group. Today Liquid Telecom South Africa (https://www.LiquidTelecom.com/) announced that Deon Geyser has been appointed as its new CEO, effective from January 1st 2021.  Geyser will be responsible for overseeing the strategic repositioning of the company as Liquid Intelligent Technologies and the execution of the new strategic direction of providing an integrated technology capability that enables customers to transform their business through new intelligent technologies. The Group Chief Operating Officer Mr. Ahmad Mokhles said: “We are delighted to welcome Deon to Liquid Telecom South Africa. He is a proven leader and his strong knowledge of both the local market and the continent, extensive management experience in both the public and private sector and the track records in digital transformation makes him ideally placed to continue Liquid’s next chapter of growth and sustainability, as well as to achieve its successful repositioning.” Geyser holds a master’s degree in engineering management as well as bachelor’s degrees in Electronic Engineering and IT from the University of Johannesburg. Prior to joining LTSA, and in his 18-year career, he has held senior management positions at Siemens and Millicom International Cellular (Tigo). His most recent position being that of Head of Southern Africa and Vodafone Africa for Nokia since 2014. Commenting on his appointment, Geyser said: “Liquid is a very strong company and I am truly honored to be chosen to lead the business into the next stage of its strategic development. Liquid has a ground-breaking view on transforming business through technology, supported by a strong and talented team, a solid customer base and an exciting customer value proposition. I look forward to continue building out its growth and to unlock value for shareholders and broader stakeholders alike.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Liquid Telecom. Media Contact: Angela Chandy Senior Manager Corporate Communication D: +27115851430   E: angela.chandy@liquidtelecom.co.za Media filesDownload logo